h2. About

@gist.sh@ is a simple bash shell script for getting/posting code snippets (gists) from/to http://gist.github.com

h2. Installation 

<pre>
  $ curl http://github.com/gmarik/gist.sh/raw/master/gist.sh > gist.sh && 
    chmod 755 gist.sh && 
    sudo mv gist.sh /usr/local/bin/ 
</pre>


h2. Usage

* Posting to GitHub from standard input:

<pre>
  $ cat file | gist.sh
  $ gist.sh < file
</pre>

or from a file:

<pre>
  $ gist.sh -f file
</pre>

or from the clipboard (xclip must be available)

<pre>
  $ gist.sh -c
</pre>

When posting from a file using -f, github will guess the language from the filename extension.

When posting from standard input or the clipboard, you may pass -e to set an extension, from which github assigns the gist language:

<pre>
  $ gist.sh -e java < file
  $ gist.sh -e java -c
</pre>

* Getting from GitHub:

<pre>
  $ gist.sh 1234
</pre>

or to write the gist to a file

<pre>
  $ gist.sh -f file 1234
</pre>

or to write the gist to the clipboard (xclip must be available)

<pre>
  $ gist.sh -c 1234
</pre>

* Cloning a gist from GitHub:

<pre>
  $ gist.sh -l 1234
</pre>

or to clone using the private clone URL to support local update and push (this requires the gist to have been created with authentication):

<pre>
  $ gist.sh -p -l 1234
</pre>

* Use the -d (debug) parameter to show the curl command that would be executed to post or receive a gist rather than actually communicating with github.

* Gists are public by default. Pass -p or --private to make a gist private.

* If your git config contains github.user and github.token (see https://github.com/account), they will be used to assign yourself as owner of the posted gist. Use the -a or --anon parameter to post anonymously.
